Cockpit 273 (#549)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2022-07-20-cockpit-273.md

---
title: Cockpit 273
author: garrett
date: '2022-07-20'
tags: cockpit, machines
slug: cockpit-273
category: release
summary: ''
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 273 and cockpit-machines 272:

## Metrics: Display CPU temperature

The metrics details page now shows the CPU temperature, including a warning icon when it becomes too hot.

![cpu-temp-warn]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/273-metrics-display-cpu-temperature.png)

## Networking: Suggest netmask and gateway addresses

When adding a manual IPv4 address to a network interface, the dialog now proposes plausible values for the net mask (based on the network class) and gateway (usually ending with .1 or .254):

![ipv4-helper-animation]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/273-networking-suggest-netmask-and-gateway-addresses.gif)

_Thanks to Gil Obradors for contributing this feature!_

## Software Updates: Optionally reboot after updating

> The update progress page offers you to reboot the machine after applying updates succeeded. If the machine can be rebooted without careful planning, this avoids having to wait and do another interactive step.

Author: ```suggestion
While updating a system, there is a new option to automatically reboot after the update process succeeds.
```

![screenshot of optionally reboot after updating]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/273-software-updates-optionally-reboot-after-updating.png)

## cockpit/ws container: Support modern SSH keys

[Cockpit 272](https://cockpit-project.org/blog/cockpit-272.html) introduced [cockpit/ws container](https://quay.io/repository/cockpit/ws) support for authenticating with classic RSA PEM type SSH keys. This was improved to support all key types, in particular the "OpenSSH" format or EC types.

## Machines: Download RHEL images

> You can now create Red Hat Enterprise Linux VMs. The dialog guides you to the page where you can get a download token for your Red Hat subscription, and uses that to download the VM image.

Author: ```suggestion
You can now easily create Red Hat Enterprise Linux VMs. The create dialog links to the page to get a download token tied to your Red Hat subscription, and uses the token to download the selected RHEL VM image.
```
